Defining relationships
00:00 - 00:14
Welcome back! Now that we have written our very first SQL joins, it's time to think more conceptually about the kinds of the relationships tables can have to each other.

2. One-to-many relationships
00:14 - 00:44
The first type of relationship we'll talk about is a one-to-many relationship. This is the most common type of relationship, one where a single entity can be associated with several entities. Think about a music library. One artist can produce many songs over their career. This is a one-to-many relationship. The same applies for authors and their books, directors and movie titles, and so on.

3. One-to-many relationships
00:44 - 01:01
Jane Austen wrote many books, and each of her books had just one author. In the table schema shown, each of her works are stored in the books table, and can be merged with the authors table using author_id from both tables.

4. One-to-one relationships
01:01 - 01:32
A second type of relationship is a one-to-one relationship. One-to-one relationships imply unique pairings between entities and are therefore less common. A commonly held premise of forensic science is that no two fingerprints are identical, and therefore that a particular fingerprint can only be generated by one person. This is an example of a one-to-one relationship: one fingerprint for one finger.

5. One-to-one relationships
01:32 - 02:26
Imagine fingerprint scanning at airport border control. Border control might have two tables in a database: a table of people and a table of their prints. Each person's fingerprint could be merged with the individuals table using their passport number. We won't cover this in detail here, but using a binary format is one way to store images, such as fingerprints, in a database. Note here that although an individual will have four fingerprints stored in the fingerprints table, this is not a one-to-many relationship. It is a one-to-one relationship, because a single individual - represented as one record on the individuals table - will have one set of fingerprints - represented as one record on the fingerprints table. The four different fingerprints are four different fields in each record.

6. Many-to-many relationships
02:26 - 03:02
The last type of relationship we'll discuss is a many-to-many relationship. An example of this is languages and countries. Here we show the official languages of Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, where we see that many languages can be spoken in many countries. For example, Belgium has three official languages: French, German, and Dutch. Conversely, languages can be official in many countries: Dutch is an official language of both the Netherlands and Belgium, but not Germany.

7. Let's practice!
03:02 - 03:12
Now that we have discussed the various relationships that can exist between tables, let's put this into practice!

```js
/* Start with the join statement in line 6; perform an inner join with the countries table as c on the left with the languages table as l on the right.
Make use of the USING keyword to join on code in line 8.
Lastly, in line 2, select the country name, aliased as country, and the language name, aliased as language. */

SELECT c.name AS country, l.name AS language 
FROM Languages AS l
INNER JOIN countries AS c
USING (code);

/* Rearrange the SELECT statement so that the language column appears on the left and the country column on the right.
Sort the results by language.*/

SELECT l.name AS language, c.name AS country
FROM countries AS c
INNER JOIN languages AS l
USING(code)
-- Order the results by language
ORDER BY language ASC;

```
